README.en.md, before:

[English](README.en.md) | [日本語](README.md)

# raspimouse_sim

ROS 2 package suite for Raspberry Pi Mouse Simulator runs on Gazebo

![](https://rt-net.github.io/images/raspberry-pi-mouse/raspimouse_sim_color_objects_world.png)

## ROS 2 Package Status

| main develop<br>(ros2)|Humble + Ubuntu Jammy<br>(humble-devel)|
|:---:|:---:|
|[![industrial_ci](https://github.com/rt-net/raspimouse_sim/workflows/industrial_ci/badge.svg?branch=ros2)](https://github.com/rt-net/raspimouse_sim/actions?query=branch%3Aros2+workflow%3Aindustrial_ci)|[![industrial_ci](https://github.com/rt-net/raspimouse_sim/workflows/industrial_ci/badge.svg?branch=humble-devel)](https://github.com/rt-net/raspimouse_sim/actions?query=branch%3Ahumble-devel+workflow%3Aindustrial_ci)|

## Requirements

requires the following to run:

* Ubuntu
  * Ubuntu Jammy Jellyfish 22.04.*
* ROS 2
  * ROS Humble Hawksbill
* Gazebo
  * Ignition Gazebo 6.x
* ROS 2 Package
  * ros-humble-desktop-full

## Installation

Download this ROS 2 package.

```sh
cd ~/ros2_ws/src
git clone -b ros2 https://github.com/rt-net/raspimouse_sim.git
```

Download the dependent ROS 2 packages.

```sh
cd ~/ros2_ws/src
git clone https://github.com/rt-net/raspimouse_ros2_examples.git
git clone -b ros2 https://github.com/rt-net/raspimouse_description.git
rosdep install -r -y -i --from-paths raspimouse*
```

Build this package using `colcon`.

```sh
cd ~/ros2_ws
colcon build --symlink-install
source ~/ros2_ws/install/setup.bash
```

## QuickStart

After building this package, run the following commands.

```sh
ros2 launch raspimouse_gazebo raspimouse_with_emptyworld.launch.py
```

## Examples

### Joystick Controll

Terminal 1:

```sh
ros2 launch raspimouse_gazebo raspimouse_with_emptyworld.launch.py
```

Terminal 2:

```sh
ros2 launch raspimouse_ros2_examples teleop_joy.launch.py joydev:="/dev/input/js0" joyconfig:=f710 mouse:=false
```

![](https://rt-net.github.io/images/raspberry-pi-mouse/raspimouse_sim_joystick.gif)

### Object Tracking

Terminal 1:

```sh
ros2 launch raspimouse_gazebo raspimouse_with_color_objects.launch.py use_rgb_camera:=true
```

Terminal 2:

```sh
ros2 launch raspimouse_ros2_examples object_tracking.launch.py mouse:=false use_camera_node:=false
```

![](https://rt-net.github.io/images/raspberry-pi-mouse/raspimouse_sim_object_tracking.gif)

## License

This repository is licensed under the MIT license, see [LICENSE]( ./LICENSE ).  
Unless attributed otherwise, everything in this repository is under the MIT license.

### Acknowledgements

* [CIR-KIT/fourth_robot_pkg]( https://github.com/CIR-KIT/fourth_robot_pkg )
  * author
    * RyodoTanaka
  * maintainer
    * RyodoTanaka
  * BSD ([BSD 3-Clause License](https://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause))
  * See [package.xml](https://github.com/CIR-KIT/fourth_robot_pkg/blob/indigo-devel/fourth_robot_control/package.xml) for details.
* [yujinrobot/kobuki]( https://github.com/yujinrobot/kobuki )
  * authors
    * Daniel Stonier
    * Younghun Ju
    * Jorge Santos Simon
    * Marcus Liebhardt
  * maintainer
    * Daniel Stonier
  * BSD ([BSD 3-Clause License](https://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause))
  * See [package.xml](https://github.com/yujinrobot/kobuki/blob/melodic/kobuki/package.xml) for details。

Commit message:

ライントレース用のコースを作成 (#74)
* ライントレース用のコースを作成

* コースを地面より0.01浮かせる

* 動作周期を修正

Co-authored-by: Shota Aoki <s.aoki@rt-net.jp>

* ラズパイマウスの初期位置を指定する引数を追加

* ラズパイマウスの初期位置をlaunchファイルから指定できるように変更

* モデル作成者の名前を変更

* blenderのモデルの作成者を変更

* コースモデルの大きさを修正

* コースモデルのスケールを修正

* コースモデルの作成者名を変更

* パネルの寸法が分かる名称に変更

* ワールド名を柔軟なものに変更

* 線の幅を4cmに変更

* READMEにモデル一覧を追加

---------

Co-authored-by: Shota Aoki <s.aoki@rt-net.jp>

README.en.md, after:

[English](README.en.md) | [日本語](README.md)

# raspimouse_sim

ROS 2 package suite for Raspberry Pi Mouse Simulator runs on Gazebo

![](https://rt-net.github.io/images/raspberry-pi-mouse/raspimouse_sim_color_objects_world.png)

## ROS 2 Package Status

| main develop<br>(ros2)|Humble + Ubuntu Jammy<br>(humble-devel)|
|:---:|:---:|
|[![industrial_ci](https://github.com/rt-net/raspimouse_sim/workflows/industrial_ci/badge.svg?branch=ros2)](https://github.com/rt-net/raspimouse_sim/actions?query=branch%3Aros2+workflow%3Aindustrial_ci)|[![industrial_ci](https://github.com/rt-net/raspimouse_sim/workflows/industrial_ci/badge.svg?branch=humble-devel)](https://github.com/rt-net/raspimouse_sim/actions?query=branch%3Ahumble-devel+workflow%3Aindustrial_ci)|

## Requirements

requires the following to run:

* Ubuntu
  * Ubuntu Jammy Jellyfish 22.04.*
* ROS 2
  * ROS Humble Hawksbill
* Gazebo
  * Ignition Gazebo 6.x
* ROS 2 Package
  * ros-humble-desktop-full

## Installation

Download this ROS 2 package.

```sh
cd ~/ros2_ws/src
git clone -b ros2 https://github.com/rt-net/raspimouse_sim.git
```

Download the dependent ROS 2 packages.

```sh
cd ~/ros2_ws/src
git clone https://github.com/rt-net/raspimouse_ros2_examples.git
git clone -b ros2 https://github.com/rt-net/raspimouse_description.git
rosdep install -r -y -i --from-paths raspimouse*
```

Build this package using `colcon`.

```sh
cd ~/ros2_ws
colcon build --symlink-install
source ~/ros2_ws/install/setup.bash
```

## QuickStart

After building this package, run the following commands.

```sh
ros2 launch raspimouse_gazebo raspimouse_with_emptyworld.launch.py
```

## Examples

### Joystick Controll

Terminal 1:

```sh
ros2 launch raspimouse_gazebo raspimouse_with_emptyworld.launch.py
```

Terminal 2:

```sh
ros2 launch raspimouse_ros2_examples teleop_joy.launch.py joydev:="/dev/input/js0" joyconfig:=f710 mouse:=false
```

![](https://rt-net.github.io/images/raspberry-pi-mouse/raspimouse_sim_joystick.gif)

### Object Tracking

Terminal 1:

```sh
ros2 launch raspimouse_gazebo raspimouse_with_color_objects.launch.py use_rgb_camera:=true
```

Terminal 2:

```sh
ros2 launch raspimouse_ros2_examples object_tracking.launch.py mouse:=false use_camera_node:=false
```

![](https://rt-net.github.io/images/raspberry-pi-mouse/raspimouse_sim_object_tracking.gif)

## Model data list

### course_curve_50x50cm
Curve course panel for line following.
Panel size is 50 cm x 50 cm and line width is 4 cm.

![](./raspimouse_gazebo/models/course_curve_50x50cm/meshes/course_curve.jpg)

### course_straight_50x50cm
Straight course panel for line following.
Panel size is 50 cm x 50 cm and line width is 4 cm.

![](./raspimouse_gazebo/models/course_straight_50x50cm/meshes/course_straight.jpg)

### cube_*cm_color-name
Each cube is 5 cm, 7.5 cm, 10 cm, and 15 cm on a side.
The cube colors are red, yellow, blue, and green.

![](https://rt-net.github.io/images/raspberry-pi-mouse/color_objects.png)

### daeファイルについて
The dae file is edited in Blender 4.0.

## License

This repository is licensed under the MIT license, see [LICENSE]( ./LICENSE ).  
Unless attributed otherwise, everything in this repository is under the MIT license.

### Acknowledgements

* [CIR-KIT/fourth_robot_pkg]( https://github.com/CIR-KIT/fourth_robot_pkg )
  * author
    * RyodoTanaka
  * maintainer
    * RyodoTanaka
  * BSD ([BSD 3-Clause License](https://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause))
  * See [package.xml](https://github.com/CIR-KIT/fourth_robot_pkg/blob/indigo-devel/fourth_robot_control/package.xml) for details.
* [yujinrobot/kobuki]( https://github.com/yujinrobot/kobuki )
  * authors
    * Daniel Stonier
    * Younghun Ju
    * Jorge Santos Simon
    * Marcus Liebhardt
  * maintainer
    * Daniel Stonier
  * BSD ([BSD 3-Clause License](https://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause))
  * See [package.xml](https://github.com/yujinrobot/kobuki/blob/melodic/kobuki/package.xml) for details。
